Hi everyone. In this video,
we're going to talk
about linear regression.
We'll begin by the definition
of linear regression.
We'll talk about
how this model get
optimized to get the
best estimate value.
Then we're going to talk about
important quantities
for linear regression,
such as fitness, performance
metric, things like that.
We'll talk about
how statistically
significant these
estimated values are.
Let's begin by reviewing how
supervised learning works.
Supervised learning
needs the training data
that feeds to the model.
This model has
internal parameters.
Sometimes some model don't
have parameters at all.
The models that have a
hyperparameter as well,
the user need to tweak.
But anyway, with that,
the model can predict the value.
If the parameters for
the parametric model
is not optimized,
then this prediction value will
be far away from the target.
Our goal is to tweak
this parameter by
optimization so that
the model makes
a prediction that's close to
the target as much as possible.
So what is the
linear regression?
It is one of the simplest kind
of supervised learning model.
It predicts a real value
number, which is regression.
Then it has the
parameters inside.
These parameters are often
called the coefficients.
It does not have a
hyperparameters.
That means the user
doesn't need to figure out
some design parameters in
advance or during the training.
Importantly, linear
regression model assumes
a linear relationship between
the features and the
target variable.
Well, what does it mean?
It means the feature,
let's say we have only
one feature for now,
has a linear relationship
to the target variable.
Let's say it's a house size.
This is the house price.
Then there could be
some data like this,
that tells us that when the
house size gets larger,
then the house
price gets larger.
Another example could
be maybe we want to
predict the salary
of a person as
a function of their
years of experience.
We might have some
data like that,
that shows that in general,
when the years of
experience goes up,
then the salary goes up.
It doesn't have to be
positive slope all the time.
There could be some
other example like this.
Maybe the data looks like
this and this is age.
This is a survival rate from
some disease such as cancer.
Then maybe there is a trend
that looks like this.
As the age goes up,
maybe survival rate goes down.
These examples show some kind of
linear relationship
of the feature
to the target variable.
When we have a multiple feature,
linear model also have some
linear combination shape.
What that means is this.
If I have a feature X1 all
the way to feature Xp,
and they are linearly
combined to each other.
X1, there is a coefficient a1,
and I add up another coefficient
times x2 plus et cetera.
Coefficient for feature p.
Then I can also add
some free parameter
A0 for the intercept.
This becomes my linear model.
This is called a
linear combination.
This type of model,
whether we have many variables
or one variable that
shows some linear relationship
of the variable to the target,
and this type of model is
called linear regression.
Let's take an example.
This data is coming
from Kaggle website.
Kaggle is a repository for
machine learning data.
So if you want to build
a machine learning model
and train to the data,
this is a place to go.
This website also hosts
the ML competition.
That means a lot of competitors
build their models that
fits the data and then
they will compare
their model performance
on this platform.
This is super fun,
so you should try.
Anyway, this data
comes from there,
and this data is about
predicting the house
sales price in
Washington state where there
are a bunch of features
that describes the house.
Price is our target variable Y,
and all these other
columns are our features.
And because we want
to build a simple
regression model like this,
we want to find out
which feature could be
a good predictor to predict
the house sales price.
If you have a domain knowledge,
you can think about what feature
will be useful to
predict the house price,
or you can think about
maybe number of
bedrooms are important.
The more number of bedrooms
then maybe it's more expensive,
or you can think about the
size of the house matters,
or you can think
about the location of
the house matters most,
things like that.
However, to quantify and have
some evidence that which
features is most important
or likely to important
to predict the price,
we can have a look at
the correlation matrix.
Correlation matrix gives
a correlation values
between the features.
Diagonal elements shows the
correlation to the cell.
It has the value of
one all the time.
However, the other
off-diagonal terms,
they show the correlation
between different features.
Because it's too
many, 21 features,
I'm going to select first a
few and then I'll look at it.
As you can see from
the first row,
which is correlation values
for all other features
to the price,
you can figure out the
square foot living,
which is a house size,
is most correlated to the price.
There are other features such
as the grade of the house
that comparably good
to predict the price.
You should be careful when you
select multiple
features based on
correlation matrix because
the order of correlation,
that means a high correlation or
absolute value of a
correlation to lower ones.
These orders are not
directly related to how
important the features are.
For example, this
feature may have
the same or comparable
correlation value
to the price with the
square foot living.
However, square foot living
in grays are highly correlated,
so when I add this feature to
my model on top of a
square foot living,
that doesn't add so much value
because this is pretty
similar to this one.
In that case, some
other variables
such as floors or
something like that,
or maybe view would add
better value to predict
the price than this one
that has a high
correlation to the price.
You have to be
little bit careful.
We're going to go through a
method that actually helps
to select the features
in right order,
but to select just one
feature correlation matrix
gives a good information.
Let's begin by that.
Let's talk about univariate
linear regression.
Univariate means the
variable is only one.
Also for that same reason,
univariate linear
regression is called
the simple linear
regression and often takes
this form that we have a
coefficient Beta 0 and Beta 1,
which represents the
intercept and slope.
Then it has residuals
that measures
the difference between
the target value
and the prediction
value by our model.
This residual is
important to measure
the error and this is
for each data point.
For example, if we have
some data that looks like
this and maybe this is
my regression line,
then this is going to be
my intercept and
the slope Beta 1.
Each discrepancy
of the data points
to the regression line
is called the residuals.
Our goal is to minimize
the overall residuals
of my model and make
my model to produce or predict
the value that's as
close as possible to
the target variable.
This can be done using
a single line using
statsmodel OLS package,
or there are other packages
such as sklearn linear model.
However, this is
useful because it generates
some summary table like this.
This summary table has
a lot of information
including the most
interesting part,
or rather my coefficient values.
With this coefficient value,
I can determine
what's my slope and
my intercept is for my simple
linear regression model.
Beside of coefficient values,
we can ask some other questions
that are important to
linear regression.
We'll begin by how do we
determine the coefficients?
In other words, how does
the model training works
under the hood of this package?
We'll also discuss how
well my model fits.
From the summary table values,
what gives an idea of
how my model fits?
Then we'll also talk about how
statistically significant
my coefficients are.
That means how robust
our estimation for
the coefficient is.
We're going to also
talk about how
well my model predicts
on unseen data.
That means, how well
does it generalize,
which is very important
in machine learning.